Orphaning
----------

We do nowadays create a new version.  In theory the following should
work (and somtimes does).

- Unpack the tarball, bump the version in DESCRIPTION, run
R CMD build --no-build-vignettes.

- Ship the new tarball to CRAN (unless the previous step was done there).

- Edit PACKAGES.in to add

Maintainer: ORPHANED
X-CRAN-Comment: Orphaned on xxxx-yy-zz

and perhaps a reason.  The first line of the comment goes into the
tarball at the next step, so keep it short,

- CRAN-pack the new tarball.

- Check that the published tarball does indeed have its maintainer
  changed.  I have seen instances in which the HTML summary page did
  but the tarball did not. One could re-try with CRAN-pack -u, and if
  that fails, go back and change the Maintainer in the tarball and
  CRAN-pack -u.

One gotcha is that there are very few packages (data.table has been
one) which hardcode the version somewhere else, so I usually R CMD
check the new tarball.

- For packages strongly depending (directly or indirectly) on this
  one, R CMD check --as-cran will start warning that they depend on an
  orphaned package, as will the some of the checks (e.g. fedora-clang)
  once they are re-run.  At that point we inform the strong revdeps,
  as our policy disallows strong dependence on an orphaned package.
  (Could of course be done earlier but I find a warning on the check
  results page concentrates people's minds.)

A typical message is

<quote>
Subject: CRAN packages depending on package X

Packages

	A B C D

require package X directly or indirectly and it has now been orphaned.
The CRAN policy

"Orphaned CRAN packages should not be strict requirements (in the
‘Depends’, ‘Imports’ or ‘LinkingTo’ fields, including indirectly).
They are allowed in ‘Suggests’ if used conditionally, although this is
discouraged."

now applies. Please adjust your packages to comply by xxxx-yy-zz.
</quote>

One could also inform the reverse Suggests, especially if they do not
use 'X' conditionally.

- We expect to archive an orphaned package once nothing depends on it,
  and in any case within 6 months.
